In this tutorial we will make a static preloader. You've probably already noticed that when we
load our level, the whole interface freezes, because the level is loaded synchronously.
In unreal, this problem can be solved in several ways: you can do asynchronous loading, you can do level streaming.
We will solve this problem with the help of animation. Change the screen to black
and load the level after the animation is complete. This will solve our problem of the interface freezing when opening a level.
When we click on the button to start the game, the OnStartGame function is called, it opens the
level that we have selected. Let's change the logic as follows: in the OnStartGame function, we will
start the animation of the transition to a black screen, and when the animation ends, we will call the code that is
now in the OnStartGame function. Let's figure out how to understand that the animation is over.
Go to the header file UserWidget. There are two native events in the base class:
OnAnimationStarted and OnAnimationFinished. They are called when the animation has started, or when the animation has ended.
We have already covered the Native event in GameMode. Let's override the OnAnimationFinished_Implementation function
in our menu widget. This function will be called every time
any animation has finished. Which animation has ended, we can understand
thanks to the parameter that this function has. We create the body of the function in a .cpp file.
Let's add a new property with animation to the header file of the widget menu.
Let's call it HideAnimation.
And in the StartGame function we will start this animation. We call the PlayAnimation function.
We pass HideAnimation to it.
And we will mix the level loading code into the OnAnimationFinished function. This function will be called every time,
no matter which animation ends. We also have a start animation - ShowAnimation.
Therefore, this function will be called in this case as well. To load the level only
after the completion of HideAnimation, we need to add a check.
If the Animation parameter is not equal to HideAnimation, then we simply exit the function.
Everything can be compiled.
Add HideAnimation to the menu.
We can reuse the image we are using to animate the appearance.
Let's add it to the HideAnimation track.
We also animate the property color and opacity.
At the beginning we will have an alpha - zero, and at the end we will set the alpha value equal to one.
Additionally, we can add property visibility and set it visible, thanks to this, after the
start of the animation, all our buttons will be inaccessible and the user, for example, will not be able to
switch the level while this animation is playing. Additionally, let's add a text element.
Let's place it in the center.
Set Size to content to true. Change the text to Loading.
We can copy the color for the text from the title.
We insert.
We will also change the font.
Let's increase the size. Let it be 200. Also set the alignment (0.5, 0.5) - so that the text is centered.
To prevent the text from overlapping our buttons (since it will always be in the viewport), set
its Visibility to Non-HitTestable. Also, by default, let's make the transparency equal to 0.
Add text to the HideAnimation track.
Add animation for property color in opacity. At the initial moment of time, the transparency is equal to 0,
and at the final moment, the transparency is equal to one.
Thus, the screen darkens and the Loading inscription appears. Let's check. We launch.
Click start game. The animation starts, and upon completion, the level opens. The screen with the preloader is working.
Let's look at the moment at the very end of the section, which I did not focus on.
How to find out which C ++ class corresponds to a UI element. To do this, drag out an arbitrary element to our layout.
Let it be GridPanel. In the details panel, at the top right, there is an Open GridPanel hyperlink.
We click on it. This class was highlighted in visual studio.
On hover, we can see where the header file is located, and also see what the class is called in C ++